## explanation of each file
#### **ft**:
  executable file of fractal, different release version could be downloaded from:https://github.com/fractalplatform/fractal/releases.                                                   
  
```
ft --help   // get help info
```
If you are familiar with go language, you could download the souce code of fractal:
https://github.com/fractalplatform/fractal, then you can compile it and get the bin file.\
Compile command:

```
~/go/src/github.com/fractalplatform/fractal$ make all
```
You could get the bin file[ft] from ./build/bin dir.

#### **genesis.json**: 
  genesis block's config file.

#### **oneStepStartAll.sh**: 
This script includes the functionality of  createGenesisNode.sh and start.sh. We could just run this file to start up the genesis node and other new nodes.  The command should be:
```
oneStepStartAll.sh localIp nodeNum p2pPort httpPort wsPort
```

-   **localIp**: the local ip address
-   **nodeNum**: the new node number, it doesn't include the genesis node.
-   **p2pPort**: the begining p2p port, the first new node will use the value of p2pPort, the second new node is p2pPort+1, and so on.
-   **httpPort**: the begining http port, the first new node will use the value of httpPort, the second new node is httpPort+1, and so on.
-   **wsPort**: the begining ws port, the first new node will use the value of wsPort, the second new node is wsPort+1, and so on.
  \
  for example: 

```
#./oneStepStartAll.sh 192.168.1.100 5 10000 11000 12000   // it will start up 5 new nodes, which p2p port is from 10000 to 10004, http port is from 11000 to 11004, ws port is from 12000 to 12004.
```


#### **createGenesisNode.sh**:

```
createGenesisNode.sh localIp
```
for example:

```
createGenesisNode.sh 192.168.1.100
```

  startup the genesis node, this script should be run before start.sh. And after running this script, you will get the genesis node info, such as: 
  
```
enode://1252e4edc7d1b57326e9e5fb00fec7ab7b2fde7359e7cbd027175e90512b6dd02a327b1fbedd6f28101dd6b3dfef2b6bcc8b58e44bf2e1c671c25a3955bd79a5@192.168.1.100:10000
```
\
Above whole string should be added to the nodes.txt which will be read by new node. New node will connect the genenis node by this node info.

#### nodes.txt
This file is generated by createGenesisNode.sh. The nodes which could be connected will written in this file. And new node will read this file then connect these nodes. The content of this file could be:
```
enode://1252e4edc7d1b57326e9e5fb00fec7ab7b2fde7359e7cbd027175e90512b6dd02a327b1fbedd6f28101dd6b3dfef2b6bcc8b58e44bf2e1c671c25a3955bd79a5@[::]:3018
enode://2252e4edc7d1b57326e9e5fb00fec7ab7b2fde7359e7cbd027175e90512b6dd02a327b1fbedd6f28101dd6b3dfef2b6bcc8b58e44bf2e1c671c25a3955bd79a6@192.168.2.11:3018
```

#### start.sh:
  start up new nodes, which will connect the genesis node. The command should be: \
  
```
start.sh nodeNum p2pPort httpPort wsPort
```

-   **nodeNum**: the new node number
-   **p2pPort**: the begining p2p port, the first new node will use the value of p2pPort, the second new node is p2pPort+1, up to p2pPort + nodeNum + 1
-   **httpPort**: the begining http port, the first new node will use the value of httpPort, the second new node is httpPort+1, up to httpPort + nodeNum + 1n
-   **wsPort**: the begining ws port, the first new node will use the value of wsPort, the second new node is wsPort+1, up to wsPort + nodeNum + 1.
  \
  for example: 

```
#./start.sh 5 10000 11000 12000   // it will start up 5 new nodes
```

  
#### stop.sh:
  stop the node which p2p port is specified by this script. The command should be:
  
```
stop.sh portStart portEnd
```

  the node which node is between [portStart, portEnd] will be closed.\
  for example: 

```
#./stop.sh 10000 10004   // it will close the node which p2p port between [10000, 10004]
```
## How to join an exist FT blockchain
Join an exist FT blockchain, just need three file, FT, start.sh and nodes.txt. The contents of nodes.txt is the node connection info metioned above. Then run start.sh.

## How to start up a private FT blockchain

At first, git clone this repository to all of your servers.


```
git clone https://github.com/syslink/fractalStartup
```


- ### Run blockchain on one server 
You just need run the script oneStepStartAll.sh.

- ### Run blockchain on several servers 
steps:
1. On your first server, run oneStepStartAll.sh which will start up genesis node and other nodes as your config.
2. Copy notes.txt which has been generated on your first server to your other servers.
3. Run start.sh on these servers metioned on step 2.
4. Use genesis account creates new accounts and transfer asset to them.
> Genesis account is configured in genesis.json metioned above.  And we will lanuch a website for you to accomplish these operators conveniently.  Just now, you should use RPC to accomplish these operators.
5. Use these new accounts to register producers. And after two epoch, the super nodes will be generated, and produce blocks.
